With the present-day advances in VR (Virtual Reality) and its utility in each day lives, Bluetooth and wi-fi automation are getting more and more accessible. This paper proposes a visual AI machine that makes use of pc imaginative and prescient to carry out mouse, keyboard, and stylus capabilities the use of hand gestures and hand tip acquisition. Instead of the use of fashionable headsets or outside devices, the proposed system tracks finger and hand movements and uses a webcam or built-in camera to process the computer. It's simple and effective, so this solution can be removed continuously. Use of additional hardware, battery life, and ultimately brings ease of use.AI mouse programs are developed using the Python programming language and the computer library OpenCV. The proposed AI visual
mouse system model uses the Media Pipe package to track hands and titles, and the Pynput, Autopy, PyGames, and PyAutoGUI packages to navigate the computer screen, left-click, right-click. Perform tasks such as scrolling. The results of the proposed model show a very high level of accuracy, and the proposed model works very well in real applications even if it uses the CPU and not the GPU.
- This project is to develop a Virtual Mouse using Hand Gesture Recognition.
- The hand gestures are the most effortless and natural way of communication.
- The aim is to perform various operations of the cursor.
- Instead of using more expensive sensorrs, a simple web camera can identify the gesture and perform the action.
- It helps the user to interact with a computer without any physical and hardware device to control mouse operation.
- We used different combinations of fingers to perform various operations of the mouse according to which particular combinations of fingers is recognized.
- Easy to use and cost effective.# Virtual-Mouse-using-Hand-Gesture-Recognition
